A bad shearer never had a good sickle.
A bad workman finds fault with his tools.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools.
A bad thing never dies.
A bargain is a bargain.
A barking dog never bites.
A barking dog was never a good hunter.
A beard well lathered is half shaved.
Well begun is half done.
The beginning is half of the whole.
A big fish in a little pond.
A big fish must swim in deep waters.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A blind man may sometimes shoot a crow.
A brave man or fortunate one is able to bear envy.
A broken hand works, but not a broken heart.
A broken heart is a monument to a love that will never die;
fulfillment is a monument to a love that is already on its deathbed.
A buddy from my old stomping grounds.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
A dog is not considered good because of his barking,
and a man is not considered clever because of his ability to talk.
A dram of discretion is worth a pound of wisdom.
A drowning man will catch at a straw.
A drowning man plucks at a straw.
A fierce dog's nose has no time to heal.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
A fair face will get its praise, though the owner keep silent.
A false friend is worse than an open enemy.
A fat chicken makes a lean will.
A father maintains ten children better than ten children one father.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
A flying crow always catches something.
A fog cannot be dispel led with a fan.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
A fool at forty is a fool indeed.
A fool may talk, but a wise man speaks.
A fool utters all his mind.
A fool's bolt is soon shot.
A forced kindness deserves no thanks.
A fox is not taken twice in the same snare.
Good luck does not always repeat itself.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
A friend is best found in adversity.
A golden key opens every door.
A good beginning makes a bad ending.
A good medicine tastes bitter.
An efficacious medicine tastes bitter.
A good neighbor is better than a brother far off.
A good pilot is not known when the sea calm and the weather fair.
A good wife is worth gold.
A gossip is one who talks to you about others; and a brilliant conversationalist is
one who talks to you about yourself.
A great book should leave you with many experience, and slightly exhausted at the end.
You live several lives while reading it.
A great city, a great solitude.
A great fortune is a great slavery.
A great obstacle to happiness is to anticipate too great a happiness.
A green Christmas[Yule] makes a fat churchyard.
A growing youth has a wolf in his belly.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A hair shirt does not always render those chaste who wear it.
A hateful worm that crawls sideways.
A history is always written by the winning side.
A hobby begun late in life.
A home having no child is like as the earth having no sun.
A home without love is no more a home than a body without a soul is a man.
A honeyed tongue with a heart of gall.
A human being should beware how he laughs, for then he shows all his faults.
A hungry ass eats any straw.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
Step by step one goes a long way.
A large fire often comes from a small spark.
A learned blockhead is a greater blockhead than an ignorant one.
A learned fool is more foolish than an ignorant one.
A learned fool is sillier than an ignorant one.
A leopard cannot change his spots.
what we read ours.
Can the leopard change his spots ?
A liar should have a good memory.
A liar will not be believed, even when he speaks the truth.
A light heart lives long.
A light wife doth make a heavy husband.
A little bite catches a large fish.
A little is better than none.
A little knowledge is dangerous.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
A little learning is a dangerous thing.
A little neglect may breed mischief.
A little pot is soon hot.
A living ass is better than a dead doctor.
A loaf of bread is better than song of many birds.
A lover without indiscretion is no lover at all.
A man apt to promise is apt to forget.
A man can not be comfortable without his own approval.
A man cannot be said to succeed in this life who does not satisfy one friend.
A man excites the world, but a woman excites the man.
A man had rather have a hundred lies told of him than one truth
which he does not wish should be told.
A man is insensible to the relish of prosperity till he has tasted adversity.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
Men are known by the company they keep.
A man is known by the company his mind keeps.
A man is like a phonograph with half-a-dozen records. You soon get tired of them all;
yet you have to sit at table whilst he reels them off to every new visitor.
A man is more or less what he looks.
A man is not good or bad for one action.
A man is not idle because he is absorbed in thought. There is a visible labor and
there is an invisible labor.
A man may not transgress the bounds of major morals,
but may make errors in minor morals.
A man must eat a peck of salt with his friend before he knows him.
A man of many talents.
A man of straw is worth a woman of gold.
A man ought to read just as inclination leads him,
for what he reads as a task will do him little good.
A man reserves his true and deepest love not for the species of woman
in whose company he finds himself electrified and enkindled,
but for that one in company he may feel tenderly drowsy.
A man should have the fine point of his soul taken off to become fit for this world.
A man who is master of himself can end a sorrow as easily as he can invent a pleasure.
A man who marries a woman to educate her falls a victim to the same fallacy as the woman
who marries a man to reform him.
A man's best fortune, or his worst, is his wife.
A merry heart doeth good like a medicine.
A merry wife makes all her life pleasant.
A mind conscious of guilt is its own accuser.
A miss is as good as a mile.
A moment's insight is sometimes worth a life's experience.
A new broom sweeps clean.
A penny plain and two pence colored.
A penny saved is a penny earned/gained.
A person doesn't only love himself in others; he also hates himself in others.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
A pig's life short and sweet.
A poor man with nothing in his belly needs hope, illusion, more than bread.
A promise is a promise.
A prophet is not without honor save in his own country.
A prophet has no honor in his own country.
A proverb is the child of experience.
A rich wife is the source of the quarrel.
A rich man's joke is always funny.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A rose is sweeter in the bud than full blown.
A rose too often smelled loses its fragrance.
A scalded cat dreads cold water.
A short saying often contains much wisdom.
A small leak will sink a great ship.
A soft answer is a specific cure for anger.
A soft answer turns away wrath.
A sound mind in a sound body.
A stitch in time saves nine.
A straw shows which way the wind blows.
A successful man can not realize how hard an unsuccessful man finds life.
A tale never loses in the telling.
A tall man is a fool.
A tear dries quickly, especially when it is shed for the troubles of others.
A theorist without practice is a tree without fruit; and a devotee without learning is
a house without an entrance.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
A tree is known by its fruit.
A tree with beautiful blossoms does not always yield the best fruit.
A true friend will not think of his own interest.
A watched pot never boils.
A white wall is a fool's paper.
A wife should always follow her husband.
A wise person profits by[from] his mistakes.
A wolf in sheep's clothing.
A wolf in a lamb's skin.
A woman and a glass are ever in danger.
Glass and a maid are ever in danger.
A woman can be anything that the man who loves her would have her be.
A woman is as old as she looks before breakfast.
A woman of no birth may marry into the purple.
A woman will doubt everything you say except it be complements to herself.
A woman's desire for revenge outlasts all her other emotions.
A woman's guess is much more accurate than a man's certainty.
A woman's whole life is a history of the affections.
A woman's tears and a dog's limping are not real.
A wonder lasts but nine days.
A word and a stone let go, can't be recalled.
A word is enough to the wise.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Absolute freedom is inhuman.
Accident will happen.
Accidents will happen in the best regulated families.
Actions speak louder than words.
Acts speak louder than words.
Adding insult to injury.
Adversity is the first path to Truth.
Adversity makes men, but prosperity makes monsters.
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
Adversity successfully overcome is the great glory.
Affliction teacheth a wicked person sometime to pray; prosperity never.
After a storm (comes) a calm.
After rain comes fair weather.
After pain comes joy.
After a thrifty father, a prodigal son.
After a typhoon there are pears to gather up.
After death, to call the doctor.
After the feast comes the reckoning.
Age imprints more wrinkles in the mind than it does on the face.
All are not friends that speak us fair.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
All art is quite useless.
All arts grow out of necessity.
All cats are grey in the dark.
All fame is dangerous; good bringeth envy; bad, shame.
All good things which exist are the fright of originality.
All great song has been sincere song.
All his geese are swans.
All immortal writers speak out of their hearts.
All is fair in love and war.
All is fish that comes to his net.
All is grist that comes to his mill.
All (is) for the best.
All is not gold that glitters.
All that glitters is not gold.
Appearances are deceptive.
Beauty is but skin deep.
All is well that ends well.
All new technology is rejected and then accepted.
All roads lead to Rome.
All the knowledge I possess everyone else can acquire, but my heart is all my own.
All the passions, fear weakens judgment most.
All things are difficult before they are easy.
All things are obedient to money.
All truths are not to be told.
All truth is not to be told at all times.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
Always shun whatever may make you angry.
Always verify your reference.
Among those whom I like or admire, I can find no common denominator,
but among those whom I love, I can; all of them make me laugh.
An angry lover tells himself many lies.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
An apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head.
An artist can not speak about his art any more than a plant can discuss horticulture.
An early bird catches the worm.
An empty purse and a finished house make a man wise, but too late.
An Englishman's house is his castle.
An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.
An honest man's the noblest work of God.
An honest man's word is as good as his bond.
An ingenuous mind feels in unmerited praise the bitterest reproof.
An injury is much sooner forgotten than an insult.
An oath and egg are soon broken.
An old man is twice a boy.
An ounce of practice is worth of a pound of theory.
Ants never bend their course to an empty granary.
Any man can make mistakes, but only an idiot persists in his error.
Art and knowledge bring bread and honor.
Art is long, and life is short.
As a jewel of gold in a swine's noutso is a fair woman which is without discretion.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
As a man sows, so he shall reap.
You reap what you have sown.
People reap as [what] they have sown.
As you make your bed, so you must lie upon it.
One must lie on the bed one has made.
As a rule, what is out of sight disturbs men's mind's more seriously than what they see.
As a well spent day brings happy sleep, so life well used brings happy death.
As easy as rolling off a log.
As for me, all I know is that I know nothing.
The more you get, the more you want.
As iron is eaten away by rust, so the envious are consumed by their own passion.
As is the king, so are the people.
As long as there is life, there is hope.
As poor as a church mouse.
As the father, so the son.
As the old cock crows, the young cock learns.
 As the twig is bent, so grows the tree.
As well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
Over shoe, over boots.
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust.
Ask, and it shall be given (to) you.
Attack is the best defense.
Avoid such men as will do you harm.
Bacchus kills more than Mars.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Great barkers are no bites.
Be great in act, as you have been in thought.
Be it ever so humble, there is no place like home.
However humble it may be, there is no place like home.
No matter how humble it may be, there is no place like home.
Home is home, be it ever so humble.
Be just before you be generous.
Be moderate in prosperity, prudent in adversity.
Be so true to thyself, so thou be false to others.
Be wisely worldly, be not worldly wise.
Beauty and folly are often sisters.
Beauty and folly are often companion.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
Beauty is one of the rare things that do not lead to doubt of God.
Beauty soon grows familiar to the lover, Fades in his eye, and palls upon the sense.
Beggars can never be bankrupt.
Beggars must[can] not be choosers.
Behind the clouds is the sun still shining.
Believe only half you hear of a man's wealth and goodness.
Better a live coward than a dead hero.
Better a living dog than a dead lion.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Better are small fish than an empty dish.
Better be courted and jilted than never be courted at all.
Better be safe than sorry.
Better be the head of a dog than the tail of a lion.
Better walk before a hen than behind an ox.
Better be wise by the misfortunes of others than by your own.
Better bend [bow] than break.
Better die with honor than live with shame.
Better late than never.
Better starve free than be a fat slave.
Better the devil you know than the devil you don't know.
Better to be alone than in bad company.
Better wear out than rust out.
Between the devil and the deep (blue) sea.
Between a rock and a hard place.
Between two stools you fall to the ground.
If you run after two hares, you will catch neither.
Beware of a reconciled friend as of a devil.
A reconciled friend is a double enemy.
Beware of no man more than thyself.
Beware of the wolf in sheep's clothing.
Beware the fury of a patient man.
Big talk means little knowledge.
Birds hear what is said by day, and rats hear what is said by night.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Birth is much, but breeding is more.
Nurture passes [is above] nature.
Bite the hand that feeds you.
Bitters do good to the stomach.
Blessed are the poor in spirit.
Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed.
Blood is thicker than water.
Books are no better than woods without being opened always.
Books cannot teach the use of books.
Books must follow sciences, and sciences books.
Bread is better than the song of the birds.
A loaf of bread is better than the song of many birds.
Bread is the staff of life.
Break a fly on the wheel.
Crush a fly on the wheel.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Bright beginning, dull finish.
By lamplight every country wench seems handsome.
By other's faults wise man corrects his own.
Calamity is man's true touchstone.
Cannot see the wood for the trees.
Can't get blood from a turnip.
Can the leopard change his spots ?
A leopard cannot change his spots.
What is learned in the cradle is carried to the grave[tomb].
Care killed a cat[the cat].
Cast never a clout till May is over.
Cast[Throw] pearls before swine.
Cast not your pearls before swine.
Casting pearls before swine.
Don't cast pearls before swine.
Catch your bear before you sell its skin.
First catch your hare (then cook him.)
Sell the skin before one has killed the bear.
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.
Do not hallo till you are out of the wood.
Cats, like men, are flatters.
Charity begins at home.
Chastity is like an icicle, if it once melts, that's the lost of it.
Curses come home to roost.
Childhood shows the man as morning shows the day.
Children always turn towards the light.
Children are poor man's riches.
Children and fools tell the truth.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
Choose neither a woman nor linen by candle light.
Circumstances are the rulers of the weak, instruments of the wise.
Claw me and I'll claw thee.
Scratch my back, and I'll scratch yours.
Clothes do not make the man.
Fine feathers do not make fine birds.
Clothes make the man.
Come empty, return empty.
Company in distress makes sorrow less.
Constant dripping wears away the stone.
Contentment is better than riches.
Continuity is power.
Courage is a kind of salvation.
Cowards die many times before their death. The valiant never taste of death but once.
Credit is better than gold.
Criticism is easy, art is difficult.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Custom is the great guide of human life.
Cut off your nose to spite your face.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Danger comes soonest when it is despised.
Danger past, God forgotten.
Daughters are fragile wares.
Dead men tell no tales.
Death always comes too early or too late.
Death cancels everything but truth.
Death devours lambs as well as sheep.
Death has but one terror, that it has no tomorrow.
Death is but an instant, life a long torment.
Death is the great leveler.
Death is the next step after the pension -it's perpetual retirement without pay.
Death is what men want when the anguish of living is more than they can bear.
Death pays[quits] all scores.
Death quits all scores.
Death surprises us in the midst of our hopes.
Deeds, not words, are needed.
Easier said than done.
Saying is one thing and doing another.
The devil finds work for idle hands to do.
Destroy the seed of evil, or it will grow up to your ruin.
Deviation from Nature is deviation from happiness.
Diligence is the mother of good fortune.
Discontent is the first step in the progress of a man or a nation.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Do as I say, not as I do.
Do as you would be done by.
Do to others as you would have them do to you.
Do in Rome as the Romans do.
When in Rome do as the Romans do.
Do not ask which is the right way to the blind.
Do not back him into a corner.
Do not cross the bridge until you come to it.
Do not go asking for trouble.
Do not kick against the pricks.
Do not let any sweet-talking woman beguile your good sense with
the fascinations of her shape. It's your barn she's after.
Do not pray for easy lives, Pray to be stronger men.
Do not put all your eggs in one basket.
Do not put the cart before the horse.
Do not quarrel with your bread and butter.
Do not rejoice over anyone's death; remember that we all must die.
Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not; but remember
that what you now have was once among the things only hoped for.
Do not throw out the baby with the bath water.
Do not wash your dirty linen in public.
Do nothing hastily but catching of fleas.
Do your best, and God will do the rest.
Don't back him into a corner.
Don't bite off more than you can chew.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Don't hurt someone who takes care of you.
Don't cry before you are hurt.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
It is no use crying over spilt[spilled] milk.
Don't give a sword to a child.
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
Don't spread yourself thin.
Don't judge a book by its cover
Judge not the book by its cover.
Don't judge a man until you've walked in his boots.
Don't judge of a man by his looks.
Don't judge a man by his exterior.
Don't let flies stick to your heels.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Don't play a double game.
If you run after two hares, you will catch neither.
Don't put new wine into old bottle.
New wine in the old bottles.
Don't put off for tomorrow what you can do today.
Don't sorrow about making a mistake that you can't change.
Dower is a brambly bed.
Draw water to his own mill.
Every miller draws water to his own mill.
Drive nature from your door with a pitchfork, and she will return again and again.
Drop by drop fills the tub.
Many drops make a shower.
Drunken folks seldom take harm.
Duty before pleasure.
Eagles don't catch flies.
Early birds catch the worms.
Early to bed and early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.
East or west, home is best.
There is no place like home.
Travel east or travel west, a man's own house is still the best.
Easy come, easy go.
Light come, light go.
Lightly won, lightly held.
Soon got[gotten], soon gone[spent].
Eat to live, and not live to eat.
An Empty purse, and a finished house, make a man wise, but too late.
Empty vessels make the greatest noise.
Empty wagons are the nosiest.
The worst wheel of the cart creaks most.
Envy is destroyed by true friendship as coquetry by true love.
Envy is more irreconcilable than hatred.
Envy is the tax which all distinction must pay.
End of law is beginning of tyranny.
Enough is as good as feast.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
Even after a bad harvest there must be sowing.
Even an ass loves to hear himself fray.
Even fool can save money, but without wise can't use.
Even the greatest make mistakes.
Even the beggar envies another beggar.
Even the wisest men make fools of themselves about women and
even the most foolish women are wise about men.
Even thieves have their standard of good and evil.
Every advantage has its disadvantage.
Every artist writes his own autobiography.
Every bean has its black.
Every bullet has its billet.
Every calamity is a spur and valuable hint.
Every cask smells of the wine it contains.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every dog has his day.
Every flow must have its ebb.
Every invalid is a physician.
Every Jack has his Gill.
Every little makes a mickle.
Many a little makes a mickle.
Many strokes fell great oaks.
Many grains of sand will sink a ship.
Little drops of water make the mighty ocean.
Every man desires to live long, but no would be old.
Every man for his own trade.
Every one to his trade.
Every man has a fool in his sleeve.
Every man has his humor.
Every man has his price.
Every man is dearest to himself.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
Every man's destiny is in his own hands.
Every man has his taste.
Many heads, many minds.
So many men, so many mind.
Every man's neighbor is his looking-glass.
Every minute seems like a thousand.
Every rose has its thorn.
No rose without a thorn.
Every ship is a romantic object, except that we sail in.
Every shoe fits not every foot.
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.
Every why has a wherefore.
Everybody‘s friend is nobody’s friend.
Everybody's business is nobody's business.
Everyone becomes brave when he observes one who despairs.
Everyone has a skeleton in his closet.
Everyone has his own standard.
Everyone is a moon and has a dark side which he never shows to anybody.
Everything can be borne except contempt.
Everything comes to those who wait.
Everything has a beginning.
Everything has its match.
Evil enters like a needle and spreads like an oak tree.
Evil is easy, and has infinite forms.
Example is better than precept.
Practice is better than precept.
Excessive drink turns a man into a fool, an animal, or a devil.
Experience is not what happens to you; it is what you do with what happens to you.
Experience makes even fools wise.
Experience keeps a dear school.
Experience is the best teacher.
Eyes are more eloquent than lips.
Fact is stranger than fiction.
Fact is more curious than fiction.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Failure is but a stepping stone to success.
Failure makes people bitter and cruel. Success improves the character of the man.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
The brave get the beauty.
Fair[Fine, Kind, Soft words, butter no parsnips.
Faith can remove mountains.
Faith is the soul of religion, and works the body.
Falsehood is the jockey of misfortune.
Fame usually comes to those who are thinking about something else.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Fate works in a strange way.
Father's virtue is the best heritage for his child.
Fear betrays unworthy souls.
Fear is stronger than arms.
Feed a cold and starve a fever.
Few die of hunger, many die of food.
Few people know how to be old.
Finders keepers, losers weepers.
Fine clothes make the man.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Fine clothes may disguise, but foolish words will disclose a fool.
Fire is the test of gold; adversity, of strong men.
First come, first served.
The devil takes[catches] the hindmost.
First impressions are most lasting.
First learn the meaning of what you say, and then speak.
First think, and than speak.
Flattery is all right - if you don't inhale.
Fling dirt enough and some will stick.
Flowers are the pledge of fruit.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
For one man who sincerely who pities our misfortunes,
there are a thousand who sincerely hate our success.
For table-talk, I prefer the pleasant and witty before the learned and the grave,
in bed, beauty before goodness.
Force is not always the answer.
Force love does not last.
Foresight is better than hindsight.
Forewarned is forearmed.
Forgotten is for forgiven.
Fortune favors the brave[bold].
Four eyes see more than two.
Two heads are better than one.
Frailty, thy name is woman.
Freedom is the will to be responsible to ourselves.
Friends and wines improve with age.
Friendship is a single soul dwelling in two bodies.
Friendship is the marriage of the soul, and this marriage is liable to divorce.
Friendship often ends in love, but love in friendship never.
Friendship that flames goes out in a flash.
Friendships ought to be immortal, hostilities mortal.
From fortune to misfortune is but a step; from misfortune to fortunes a long way.
From labor health, from health contentment spring.
From listening comes wisdom, and from speaking repentance.
From the cradle to the grave.
From the same flower the bee extracts honey and wasp gall.
Gather roses while you may.
Gather the rosebuds while you may.
Generally we praise only to be praised.
Genius does what is must, and Talent does what it can.
Genius is nothing but a great aptitude for patience.
Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety-nine percent perspiration.
Genius must be born, and never can be taught.
Get angry at others for one‘s own mistakes.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
Claw me and I'll claw thee.
Scratch my back, and I'll scratch yours.
Give him an inch, and he will take an ell.
Give me the liberty to know, to utter, and to argue freely according to conscience,
Giving a peck and getting a bushel.
Glory is the fair child of peril.
Go around Robin Hood's barn.
Go for wool and come home shorn.
Go home and kick the dog.
Go in (at) one ear and out (at) the other.
Go it while you are young.
God comes to see us without bell.
God created man, and finding him not sufficiently alone,
gave him a female companion so that he might feel his solitude more acutely.
God does not measure men inches.
Men are not to be measured by inches.
God does not smite with both hands.
God gives every bird its food, but does not throw it into the nest.
God helps the early riser.
God helps those who help themselves.
Heaven helps those who help themselves.
God is for the battalions.
God made the country, and man made the town.
God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
God's mill grinds slow but sure.
The mills of God grin slowly.
Golden chains are stronger than iron chains.
Gold is tried with fire, friendship with distress.
Good beginning makes a bad ending.
Good company makes the road shorter.
Good health is a great asset.
Good luck alternates with misfortune.
Good luck does not always repeat itself.
A fox is not taken twice in the same snare.
Good medicine tastes bitter.
Good order is foundation of all things.
Good swimmers are drowned at last.
Good things come in small packages.
Good wine makes good blood.
Good wine needs no bush.
Good words are worth much, and cost little.
Good words cost nothing.
Great countries are those that produce great man.
Great hopes make great men.
Great minds think alike.
Great talkers are little doers.
Habit[Custom] is (a) second nature.
Half a loaf is better then no bread.
Happiness always looks small while you hold it in your hands,
but let it go, and you learn at once how big and precious it is.
Happiness depends upon ourselves.
Happiness is composed of misfortunes avoided.
Happiness is itself a kind of gratitude.
Hard cases make good law.
Hard with hard makes not the stone wall.
Hard words break no bones.
Hard work never hurts anybody.
Harm watch, harm catch.
Hasty marriage seldom proveth well.
Hatred is the coward's revenge for being intimidated.
Have a care of a silent dog, and still water.
Having nothing, nothing can he lose.
He catches the wind with a net.
He cleaves the clouds.
He dies first who has never been ill.
He has existed only, not lived, who lacks wisdom in old age.
He hath lived ill that knows not how to die well.
He is a good friend who applauds me behind.
He is building a bridge over the sea.
He is not fit for riches who is afraid to use them.
He knows not his own strength that hath not met adversity.
He laughs best who laughs last.
He must be pure who blames another.
He needs a long spoon that sups with the devil.
He that sups with the devil must have a long spoon.
He prepares evil for himself who plots mischief for others.
He sets the wolf to guard the sheep.
He takes oil to extinguish the fire.
He that blows in the dust fills his own eyes.
He that conceals his grief finds no remedy for it.
He that fears you present will hate you absent.
He that fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
He that grasps too much, holds nothing.
He that has a head of wax must not approach the fire.
He that has no charity deserves no mercy.
He that has no shame has no conscience.
He that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.
He that is discontented in one place will seldom be happy in another.
He that is master of himself will soon be master of others.
He that is not handsome at twenty, nor strong at thirty, nor rich at forty,
nor wise at fifty, will never be handsome, strong, rich or wise.
He that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast.
He that is out sea must either sail or sink.
He that knows himself knows others.
He that lives with cripples learns to limp.
He that resolves to deal with none but honest men must leave off dealing.
He that travels far knows much.
He that travels much knows much.
He that will steal a pin will steal an ox.
He that will thrive must rise at five.
He that would be superior to external influences must first become superior
He that's cheated twice by the same man is an accomplice with the cheater.
He that's content hath enough.
He who begins many things, finishes but few.
He who can make his enemy turn to his friend is a man of ability.
He who carries nothing, loses nothing.
He who chooses takes the worst.
He who conquers others is strong; He who conquers himself is mighty.
He who dances must pay the piper.
They that dance must pay the fiddler.
He who defines his conduct by ethics imprisons his song-bird in a cage.
He who gives fair words feeds you with an empty spoon.
He who has been bitten by a snake is afraid of an eel.
He who has once burnt his mouth always blows his soup.
He who hesitates is lost.
He who is afraid of asking is ashamed of learning.
He does not ask anything, knows nothing.
He who is born a fool is never cured.
He who is cold for love, as friend unworthily to lay trust upon.
He who is guilty believes that all men speak of him.
He who is in hell knows not what heaven is.
He who knows how to flatter also knows how to slander.
He who knows others is learned; / He who knows himself is wise.
He who learns against a good tree, a good shelter find he.
He who lends to the poor, gets his interest from God.
He who lives only for himself is truly dead to others.
He who never makes any enemies, never makes any friends.
He who pays the piper may call the tune.
He who runs after two hares will catch neither.
If you run after two hares, you will catch neither.
He who seeks only for applause from without has all his happiness in another's keeping.
He who shoots often hits at last.
He who sows little, reaps little.
He who sows thorns will never reap grapes.
He who spits against the wind fouls his beard.
He who touches pitch shall be defiled therewith.
He that toucheth pitch shall be defiled.
He who undervalues himself is justly undervalued by others.
He who would climb the ladder, must begin at the bottom.
He who would search for pearls must dive below.
He will be obliged to sell necessary things, who buys needless things.
Health is mother of happiness.
Heaven defends the right.
Heaven helps those who help themselves.
God helps those who help themselves.
Heaven's vengeance is slow but sure.
Heavy work in youth is quite rest in old age.
what we read ours.
Hell is paved with good intentions.
Hide not your light under a bushel.
High place, great danger.
His bark is worse than his bite.
His fingers are all thumbs.
His own character is the arbiter of every one's fortune.
History is the best prophesy.
History repeats itself.
Hoist your sail when the wind is fair.
Home is home, be it ever so humble.
Be it ever so humble, there is no place like home.
No matter how humble it may be, there is no place like home.
A horse may stumble though he has four legs.
Honest labor bears a lovely face.
Honesty is for the most part less profitable than dishonesty.
Honesty is the best policy.
Hope never spreads his golden wings but in unfathomable sea.
Human love is often but the encounter of two weaknesses.
Humanity is the virtue of a woman, generosity of a man.
Hunger breaks stone walls.
Hunger finds no fault with the cookery.
Hunger is good kitchen meat.
Hunger is the best sauce.
Hunger makes hard bones sweet beans.
I'm so hungry I could eat a horse.
Hunger knows no friend.
Hungry dogs will eat dirty puddings.
Hungry horse makes a clean manger.
Hypocrisy is the homage that vice pays to virtue.
I can find my biography in every fable that I read.
I can not be your friend and your flatterer too.
I dislike to eat it and yet I am stingy about giving it to the dog.
Idle folks have the least leisure.
If afflictions refine some, they consume others.
If an ass goes traveling, he'll not come home a horse.
If envy were a fever, all the world would be ill.
If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him.
If Jack's in love, he's no judge of Jill's beauty.
If poverty is the mother of all crimes, lack of intelligence is their father.
If the blind lead the blind both will fall into the ditch.
If the sky falls, we shall catch larks.
If thou can not see the bottom. wade not.
If you are idle, be not solitary, if you are solitary, be not idle.
If you can't get a horse, ride a cow.
If you can't beat them, join them.
If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen.
If you knew how cowardly your enemy is, you would slap him.
Bravery is knowledge of the cowardice in the enemy.
If you laugh, blessings will come your way.
If you shut your door to all errors truth will be shut out.
If you want peace, prepare for war.
If you want people to think well of you, do not speak well of yourself.
Ignorance of the law excuses no one.
An ill workman always quarrels with his tools.
A bad workman always blames his tools.
Imitation is the sincerest flattery.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
Immature love says: I love you because I need you. Mature love says:
I need you because I love you.
In a smith's house the knife is wooden.
In every kind of adversity, the bitter part of a man's affliction is to remember t
hat he once was happy.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
In general, the art of government consists in taking as much money
as possible from one class of citizens to give to the other.
In marriage do thou be wise: prefer the person before money, virtue before beauty,
The mind before the body; then thou hast a wife, a friend, a companion, a second self.
In one ear and out the other.
In order to love simply, it is necessary to know how to show love.
In prosperity friends do not leave you unless desired, whereas in adversity
they stay away of their own accord.
In prosperity think of adversity.
Do in Rome as the Romans do.
In the country of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
In the day of prosperity, adversity is forgotten and in the day of adversity,
prosperity is not remembered.
In the kingdom of the blind, the one-eyed is king.
When the cat's away, the mice will play.
In the looking-glass we see the form, in wine the heart.
In the love of home, the love of country has its rise.
In their first passion women love their lovers, in all the others they love love.
Industry is the parent of success.
Information's pretty thin stuff, unless mixed with experience.
Inscrutable are ways of heaven.
It adds evil to requite evil for evil.
It goes ill with the house where the hen sings and cock is silent.
It is a foolish bird that soils its own nest.
It's a long lane that has no turning.
It is a sad house when the hen crows louder than the cock.
It is a wise child that knows its own father.
It is an illusion that youth is happy, an illusion of those who have lost it.
It is as foolish to make experiments upon the constancy of a friend,
as upon the chastity of a wife.
It is as natural to die as to be born.
It is best to prepare for a rainy day.
It is better to do well than to say well.
It is better to drink deep griefs than to taste shallow pleasures.
It is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.
It is better to live rich, than to die rich.
It is better to wear out than to rust out.
It is easier to forgive an enemy than to forgive a friend.
It is easy to be wise after the event.
It is good to have friends everywhere.
It is hard for an empty sack to stand straight.
It is hard to make an old mare leave flinging.
It is impossible to love and be wise.
It is love, not reason, that is stronger than death.
It is more ignominious[shameful] to mistrust our friends than to be deceived by them.
It is neither wealth nor splendor, but tranquility and occupation, which give happiness.
It is never too late to learn.
It is never too late to mend.
It is no use crying over spilt milk.
It is of no use to cry over spilt milk.
Repentance comes too lateIt is no use quarreling with Providence.
It is not death or pain that is to be dreaded, but the fear of pain or death.
It is not who is right, but what is right, that is of importance.
It is obviously quite difficult to be no longer loved when we are still in love,
but it is incomparably more painful to be loved when we ourselves no longer love.
It is old cow's notion that she never was a calf.
It is only at the tree loaded with fruit that the people throw stones.
It is rash to sell the bird on the bough.
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.
It is simple things that last long.
It is so difficult to know what the people we love really need.
It is the last straw that breaks the camel's back.
The last straw breaks the camel's back.
It is too late to lock the stable when the horse has been stolen.
It is useless to flog a dead horse.
It is very difficult to change an established habit.
It is wisdom sometimes to seem a fool.
It is within a stone's throw.
It matters not how a man dies, but how he lives.
It never rains but it pours.
One misfortune rides upon another's back.
Misfortunes never come single[singly].
It takes two to make a quarrel.
It takes two to tango.
It you'd be loved, be worthy to be loved.
Jack of all trades is master of none.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
Jealousy and anger shorten life, and anxiety bring an old age too soon.
Joy and sorrow are next-door neighbors.
Judge not the book by its cover.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
Jump[Leap] out of the frying pan into the fire.
Justice will assert itself.
Keep not two tongues in one mouth.
Keep something for a rainy day.
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards.
Kill not the goose that lays the golden eggs.
Kill two birds with one stone.
Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it.
Laws and police regulations can be compared to a spider's web
that lets the big mosquitoes through and catches the small ones.
Lean liberty is better than fat slavery.
Learn to walk before you run.
Least said, soonest mended.
The least said, the soonest mended.
Leave a welcome behind you.
Lend your money and lose your friend.
Let beggars match with beggars.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Liars should have good memories.
Liberty entails responsibility.
Liberty is a different kind of pain from prison.
Lies melt like snow.
Life imitates art far more than art imitates life.
Life is full of ups and downs.
Life is an incurable disease.
Life is but an empty dream.
Life is half spent before one knows what life is.
Life is like an onion, which one peels crying.
Life is made up of sobs, sniffles, and smiles, with sniffles predominating.
Life is not all beer and skittles.
Life means learning to abhor the false, and to love the true.
Light[Lightly] come, light[lightly] go.
Lightly won, lightly held.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
Fight fire with fire.
Like mounting an ox that is lying down.
Like two peas in a pod.
Two peas in the same pod.
Likeness causes liking.
Lions in time of peace, deers in war.
Little by little one goes far.
Little by little the little bird builds its nest.
Little drops of water make the mighty ocean.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Small drops make a shower.
Water will wear away stone.
Little pitchers have long ears.
Little pot is soon hot.
Little troubles are great to little people.
Lock the stable door after the horse has been stolen[has bolted].
Lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
Long life long misery.
Long tongue, short hand.
Look before you leap.
Look a gift horse in the mouth.
Lookers-on see most of the game.
Losers are always in the wrong.
Love and smoke cannot be hidden.
Love and a cough cannot be hid.
Love built on beauty, soon as beauty, dies.
Love dies only when growth stops.
Love grows with obstacles.
Love is all life for a woman.
Love is a sickness full of woes, All remedies refusing.
Love is a tyrant sparing none.
Love is more afraid of change than destruction.
Love is Nature's second sun.
Love is rarer than genius itself. And friendship is rarer than love.
Love is sweet, but tastes best with bread.
Love is the child of illusion and the parent of disillusion.
Love is the true price of love.
Love knows hidden paths.
Love laughs at a distance.
Love, like fire, can not subsist without constant impulse;
it ceases to live from the moment it ceases to hope or to fear.
Love lodged in a woman's breast is but guest.
Love makes the world go round.
Love must be as much a light as a flame.
Love should be a tree whose roots are deep in the earth, but whose branches extend
Love sought is good, but given unsought, is better.
Love that is ignorant and hatred have almost the same ends.
Love, the itch, and a cough can not be hid.
Love thy neighbor as thyself.
Love truth, but pardon error.
Maidens say no, and mean yes.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Make rye while the moon shines.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Make way for a madman and a bull.
Making a mountain out of a molehill.
Man and melons are hard to know.
Man can climb to the highest summits, but he can not dwell there long.
Man does not live by bread alone.
Man is but a reed, the weakest in nature, but he‘s a thinking reed.
Man is neither angel nor beast, and the misfortune is that he who would act t
he angel acts the beast.
Man proposes, God disposes.
Man, know thyself. All wisdom centers there.
Man's best possession is a sympathetic wife.
Many a little makes a mickle.
Many a pickle makes a mickle.
Every little makes a mickle.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Many can bear adversity, but few contempt.
Many hands make light work.
Many heads[men], many mind.
Marriage are made in heaven and consummated on earth.
Marriage has many pains, but celibacy has no pleasures.
Marriage is easy, house-keeping is hard.
in opposite directions, yet always punishing anyone who comes between them.
Marriage is written in Heaven.
Marry in haste, repent at leisure.
Masters are mostly the greatest servant in the house.
subtle instinct about things. What we like is to be a man's last romance.
Men are but children of a larger growth.
Men are[A man is] known by the company they keep.
Men are not prisoners of fate, but only prisoners of their own minds.
Men are not to be measured by inches.
Men live by forgetting, women live on memories.
Men, like peaches and pears, grow sweet a little while before they begin to decay.
Minds differ still more than faces.
Misfortunes tell us what fortune is.
Misfortunes when asleep are not to be awakened.
Money can't buy happiness.
Money does not grow on trees.
Money isn't the best thing in the world.
Money makes the mare to go.
More haste, less speed.
More often than not, a hastily performed task turns out to be unsuccessful.
Most females will forgive a liberty rather than a slight.
Most quarrels amplify a misunderstanding.
Mountains of gold would not seduce some men, yet flattery would break them down.
Much caution does no harm.
Much learning does not teach understanding.
Muck and money go together.
Music with dinner is an insult both to the cook and violinist.
My eyes are bigger than my stomach[belly].
Naked came we into the world and naked shall we depart from it.
Name-calling engenders hatred.
Name not a rope in his house that hanged himself.
Nature does not proceed by leaps.
Nature is the best physician.
Nature is the glass reflecting God.
Nature never deceives us ; it is always we who deceive ourselves.
Nature, sunlight, and patience are three great physicians.
Near neighbor is better than a distant cousin.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Needs must when the devil drives.
Never buy a pig in a poke.
Never despair. But if you do, work on in despair.
Never go on trips with anyone you do not love.
Never grieve what you cannot help.
Never is a long time[word].
Never judge by appearances.
Don`t judge a book by its cover.
Appearances are deceptive.
Beauty is but skin deep.
All is not gold that glitters.
Never put off till tomorrow what may be done today.
Never swap horses while crossing the stream.
Never too late to mend.
Never too old to learn.
No man is too old to learn.
New brooms sweep clean.
New wine in the old bottles.
Don't put new wine into old bottle.
Nine tailors make[go to] a man.
No reward without toil.
Nothing venture, nothing have.
No legacy is so rich as honesty.
No man can climb out beyond the limitation of his own character.
No man can serve two masters.
No man is a hero to his valet.
No man is a hypocrite in his pleasures.
No man is born wise or learned.
No man is more cheated than the selfish man.
No man is too old to learn.
No man knows what the wife of his bosom is until he has gone with her
through the fire trials of this world.
No man limps because another is hurt.
No matter how humble it may be, there is no place like home.
However humble it may be, there is no place like home.
Be it ever so humble, there is no place like home.
Home is home, be it ever so humble.
No medicine can cure a man of discontent.
No one can call back yesterday.
No one is so old that he does not think he could live another year.
No one is wise at all times.
No road is long with good company.
There's no rose without a thorn.
Every rose has its thorn.
No rule without exception.
No smoke without fire.
No two people think alike.
No woman ever hates a man for being in love with her,
but many a woman hates a man  for being a friend to her.
No wonder lasts more than nine days.
A wonder lasts but nine days.
None are so blind as those who won't see as those.
None but the brave deserves the fair.
Nothing can be accomplished without effort.
Nothing can be done at once hastily and prudently.
Nothing can be loved or hated unless it is first known.
Nothing comes from nothing.
Nothing ever becomes real till it is experienced. Even a proverb is no proverb to you
till your life has illustrated it.
Nothing great in the world has been accomplished without passion.
Nothing hurts like the truth.
Nothing is more fatal to happiness than the remembrance of happiness.
Nothing is more tiresome than a superannuated pedagogue.
Nothing is said now that has not been said before.
Nothing sharpens sight like envy.
Nothing sought, nothing found.
Nothing venture, nothing have.
Nothing succeeds like success.
Birth is much, but breeding is more.
Obstacles are the things a person sees when he takes his eye off the goal.
Old age and sickness bring out the essential characteristics of a man.
Old fools are more foolish than young ones.
Old friends and old wine are best.
Once a beggar, always a beggar.
Once a devil, always a devil.
Once a thief, always a thief.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
One beats the bush, and another catches the birds.
One man sows and another man reaps.
One bee is better than a handful of flies.
One can bear grief, but it takes two to be glad.
One can know a man from his laugh, and if you like a man's laugh
before you know anything of him, you may confidently say that he is a good man.
One cannot eat one's cake and have it.
One cannot see the wood for the trees.
One cannot put back the clock.
One father is more than a hundred schoolmasters.
One friend in a lifetime is much; two are many; three are hardly possible.
One hand finds it hard to applaud.
One hour's sleep before midnight is worth three after.
One is apt to become overly engrossed in work.
One is never too old to learn.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
One may as well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb.
One mischief comes on the neck of another.
One misfortune rides upon another's back.
Misfortunes never come single singly.
It never rains without pouring.
One of the great disadvantages of hurry is that it takes such a long time.
One rotten apple spoils the barrel.
One picture is worth a thousand words.
One swallow does not make a summer.
One who longs for death is miserable, but mote miserable is he who fears it.
Only the brave deserve the fair.
Only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches.
Opportunity makes the thief.
Opportunity seldom knocks twice.
A fox is not taken twice in the same snare.
Good luck does not always repeat itself.
Other times, other manners.
Our bodies are our gardens, to the which our wills are gardeners.
Our greatest glory consists not in never falling but in rising every time we fall.
Our neighbor's cow yields more milk than ours.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Out of the frying pan into the fire.
Out of the mouth comes evil.
Over shoes, over boots.
Pain and death are a part of life. To reject them is to reject life itself.
Pain makes man think, Thought makes man wise. Wisdom makes life endurable.
Painted flowers have no scent.
Painting is silent poetry, and poetry speaking painting.
Pardon another often, yourself never.
Patience accomplishes its object, while hurry speeds to its ruin.
Patience and diligence, like faith, remove mountains.
Patience is a virtue.
Patience is the virtue of asses.
Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet.
Peace is the nurse of art.
Penny wise, pound foolish.
Penny wise and pound foolish.
People ask you for criticism, but they only want praise.
People who make no noise are dangerous.
Perfection requires the hand of time.
Petty crimes are punished: great rewarded.
Pleasant hours fly past.
Poison quells poison.
Pour water over a duck's back.
Poverty brings stupidity.
Poverty is a stranger to industry.
Poverty is the parent of revolution and crime.
Poverty makes you sad as well as wise.
Poverty - that most deadly and prevalent of all diseases.
Practice is better than precept.
Example is better than precept.
Example is better than cure.
Practice makes perfect.
Practice use perfect.
Praise a fool, and you make him useful.
Praise to the undeserving is severe satire.
Preachers say, Do as I say, not as I do.
Prevention is better than cure.
Pride goes before a fall.
Pride goes before destruction.
Pride will have a fall.
Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall.
Pride is said to be the last vice the good man gets clear of.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
Profit is better than fame.
Prosperity makes friends, adversity tries them.
Pudding rather than praise.
Punctuality is the politeness of kings.
Put[Set] the saddle on the right horse.
Quarrels are the dowry which married folk bring one another.
Quarrels would not last long if the fault was only on one side.
Question is not answer.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
Reading furnishes the mind only with materials of knowledge; it is thinking makes
Reading is to the mind what exercise is to the body.
Reading makes a full man, meditation a profound man, discourse a clear man.
Read not for others but for yourself.
Real friendship is shown in times of trouble, prosperity is full of friends.
Refusal of praise is a desire to be praised twice.
Religion is the mother of all civilization.
Religion lies more in walk than in talk.
Remember that the most beautiful things in the world are the most useless;
peacocks and lilies, for instance.
Repentance comes too late.
It is no use crying over spilt milk.
Respect yourself if you would have others respect you.
Restraint is the best medicine.
for he may one day become your friend.
Riches serve a wise man but command a fool.
Rome was not built in a day.
Every rose has its thorn.
No rose without a thorn.
Rolling stone gathers no moss.
What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Saying is one thing and doing another.
Scalded cats fear even cold water.
Scratch my back and I will scratch yours.
Scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.
You scratch my back and I'll scratch your back.
Scratch a Russian, and you will find a Tartar.
Searching[Looking] for a needle in a haystack.
Second thoughts are best.
Security is the great enemy.
Security is the mortal's chiefest enemy.
Seeing is believing.
He who sows little reaps little.
Self-reflection is the school of wisdom.
Self-trust is the first secret of success.
Sense comes with age.
Sensuality is the grave of the soul.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Short accounts make long friends.
Show me a liar, I will show you a thief.
Shrouds have no pockets.
Shut the stable door after the horse is stolen.
Silence is gold [golden].
Silence is the most perfect expression of scorn.
Silence gives consent.
Silks and satins put out the fire in the kitchen.
Sincerity is glass, discretion is diamond.
Slow and[but] steady wins the race[game].
Small drops make a shower.
So many countries, so many customs.
So many men, so many minds.
No two people think alike.
Solitude is bearable only with God.
Solitude is the mother of anxieties.
Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed
Some men dig their graves with their teeth.
Some people cannot see the wood for the trees.
Sometimes even to live is an act of courage.
Soon got[gotten], soon gone[spent].
Soon learned, soon forgotten.
Sow the wind and reap the whirlwind.
Spare the rod and spoil the child.
Speak[talk] of the devil, and he will sure to appear.
Speak well of the dead.
Speech is silver, but silence is gold.
Step by step one goes a long way.
Still[Smooth] waters run deep.
Smooth waters run deep.
Storm[Tempest] in a teacup[teapot].
Strike while the iron is hot.
Style is the man himself.
Style is the dress of thoughts.
Success has many friends.
Such master, such servant.
Suspicion begets suspicion.
Sweet meat will have sour sauce.
Take care of the pence, and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Take heed of the snake in the grass.
Talk of angels and you will hear the flutter of their wings.
Talk[Speak] of the devil and he will appear.
Take the bull by the horns.
Talk[Talking] to the wall.
Tall trees catch much wind.
There is no accounting for tastes.
Every man to his taste.
Every man has his humor.
Teaching others teaches yourself.
Tell me the company you keep and I will tell you what you are.
Tell not all you know, believe not all you hear, do not all you are able.
That is not always good in the maw that is sweet in the mouth.
The appetite grows with what it feeds on.
The apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
The apples in the neighbor's garden are sweetest.
The apples on the other side of the wall are the sweetest.
The artist finds a greater pleasure in painting than in having completed the picture.
The avaricious man is always in want.
The beaten road is the safest.
The beetle is a beauty in the eyes of its mother.
The beginning is half of the whole.
The belly is not filled with fair words.
A loaf of bread is better than the song of many birds.
Bread is better than the songs of the birds.
Pudding rather than praise.
Without bread and wine, even love will pine.
The best fish smell when they are three days old.
The best fish swims near the bottom.
The best goods are the cheapest.
The best preparation for good work tomorrow is to do good work today.
The best thing about animals is that they don't talk much.
The best things are hardest[worst] to come by.
The best things in life are free.
The best way to know God is to love many things.
The better part of valor is discretion.
The bird of paradise alights only upon the hand that does not grasp.
The bite hides the hook.
Go for wool and come home shorn.
The boot is on the other‘s foot.
The boughs that bear most hang lowest.
The brave get the beauty.
The bungling remedy is worse than the disease.
The burden is light on the shoulders of another.
The candle that goes before gives the best light.
The cat shuts its eyes while it steals creams.
The cat that ate the canary.
The cat won't scratch you if you leave it alone.
The child is (the) father of[to] the man.
The cobbler's children go barefoot.
The cobbler's wife goes the worst shod.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
The coward calls the brave man rash, the rash man calls him a coward.
The cowl does not make the monk.
The darkest hour is that before the dawn.
The dead are soon forgotten.
The dearer the child, the sharper must be the rod.
The deep sea can be fathomed, but who knows the hearts of men?
The devil is not so black as he is painted.
The devil takes[catches] the hindmost.
The dog rages at the stone, not at him who throws it.
The dog that kills wolves is killed by wolves.
Good swimmers are drowned at last.
The dread of loneliness is greater than the fear of bondage, so we get married.
The early bird catches the worms.
The eagle does not catch flies.
The end justifies the means.
The end of mirth is the beginning of sorrow.
The eternal silence of these infinite spaces terrifies me.
The exception proves the rule.
The excessive drinker always attacks his life.
The eye is the mirror of the soul.
The first property is the health.
The first step is always the hardest.
The first sweep finds the money lost at night.
Early birds catch the worms.
The first symptom of true love in a man is timidity, in a girl it is boldness.
The fish always stinks from the head downwards.
The fish will soon be caught that nibbles at every bait.
Curiosity killed the cat.
The fly flutters about the candle till last it gets burned.
The folly of one man is the fortune of another.
The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself be a fool!
The foot of the candle is dark.
The fox is not taken twice in the same snare.
The frog will jump back into the pool, although it sits on a golden stool.
The fruit fall not far from the stem.
The function of wisdom is to discriminate between good and evil.
The furthest way about is the nearest way home.
The longest way around is the shortest way.
The Gods themselves do not fight against necessity.
Whom the gods love, die young.
The grass is greener on the other side of the fence.
The gray mare is the better horse.
The greatest happiness of man is hope.
The greatest mistake you can make in life is continually fearing if you will make one.
The greatest pleasure I know is to do a good action by stealth,
and to have it found out by accident.
The greatest talkers are the least doers.
The health know not of their health, but only the sick.
The health produces the pleasure, the pleasure produces the wealth.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth, but the mouth of a wise man is in his heart.
The heart sees further than the head.
The heaviest baggage for a traveler is an empty purse.
The higher up, the greater fall.
The hindmost dog may catch the hare.
The honest poor can sometimes forget poverty. The honest rich can never forget it.
The human heart is like a ship on a stormy sea driven about by winds blowing from
all four corners of heaven.
The hurricane does not uproot grasses, which are pliant and bow low before it
on every side. It is only the lofty trees that it attacks.
The husband's mother is the wife's devil.
The ineffable joy of forgiving and being forgiven forms an ecstasy
that might well arouse the envy of the gods.
The[an] iron hand in the[a] velvet glove.
The knowledge of the world is only to be acquired in the world, and not in a closet.
The last straw breaks the camel's back.
It is the last straw that breaks the camel's back.
(The) least said, (the) soonest mended.
The less said the better.
The love of money is the root of all evil.
The love of truth has its reward in heaven and even on earth.
The lucky man has a daughter for his first fruit.
The man of your own trade is your enemy.
The man who makes no mistakes does not usually make anything.
The man who removes a mountain begins by carrying away small stones.
The master's eye and foot are best manure for the field.
The maxims of men disclose their hearts.
The mills of God grind slowly.
The mind has great influence over the body, and maladies often have their origin there.
The miserable have no other medicine, but only hope.
The miser's bag is never full.
The more things a man is ashamed of the more respectable he is.
The more you get, the more you want.
The most wasted day is that in which we have not laughed.
The net of the sleeper catches fish.
The object of studying philosophy is to know one's own mind, not other people's.
The old forget, the young don't know.
The older I grow, the more I learn.
Experience is better than learning.
Years know more than books.
The old sees better behind than the young before.
The old woman is picking her goose.
The only way to keep a secret is to say nothing.
The opposite of love is indifference.
The owl thinks her own young fairest.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
The pitcher goes so often to the well that it is broken at last.
The poem is born, not made.
The pot calls the kettle black.
The price of hating other human beings is loving oneself less.
The proof of pudding is in the eating.
The proud man places himself at a distance from other men; seen through that distance,
others perhaps appear little to him; but he forget that this very distance causes him
to appear equally little to others.
The quarrels of friends are the opportunities of foes.
The real dread of men is not the devil, but old age.
The real fault is to have faults and not to a mend them.
The rich man transgresses the law, and the poor man is punished.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The roots of education are bitter, but the fruit is sweet.
The severity of the master is more useful than the indulgence of the father.
The shepherd even when he comes a gentleman smells of the lamb.
The shirt is nearer than the coat.
The skin is nearer than the shirt.
The sick man sleeps when the debtor can't.
The sickness is every man's master.
The silent dog first bites.
The silliest woman can manage a clever man; but it needs a very clever woman
The sparrow near a school sings the primer.
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
The starving ass does not count the blows.
The strongest iron, hardened in the fire, / most often ends in scraps and shatterings.
The study of crime begins with the knowledge of oneself.
The surest way to remain poor is to be an honest man.
The supreme happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved.
The thief thinks that all men are like himself.
The things we know best are the things we haven't been taught.
The things we remember best are those better forgotten.
The tongue wounds more than a lance.
The tree must be bent while it is young.
The trouble with a kitten is that eventually it becomes a cat.
The virtue of prosperity is temperance, the virtue of adversity is fortitude.
The voice of the people is the voice of God.
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
The whole secret of teacher's force lies in conviction that men are convertible.
The will is as good as the deed.
The wise man avoids evil by anticipating it.
The wisest man is he who does not fancy that he is so at all.
The wish is father to the thought.
The work of art is the exaggeration of an idea.
The worse luck now, the better another time.
The worst of men are those who will not forgive.
The worst wheel of the cart always creaks most.
There are more ways to kill a dog than hanging.
There are three faithful friends-an old wife, an old dog, and ready money.
There are tricks in every trade.
There are two sides every question.
Only the wisest of mankind achieve the second.
There is a black sheep in every flock.
There is a sort of pleasure in indulging of grief.
There is a time for everything.
There is always time to add a word, never to withdraw one.
There is but one step from the sublime to the ridiculous.
There is little less trouble in governing a private family than a whole kingdom.
There is many a slip between the cup and the lip.
There is no accounting for tastes.
There is no disputing about tastes.
(There's) no fool like an old fool.
There is no forgiveness in nature.
There is no place like home.
There is no pleasure without pain.
There is no reason why the same man should like the same books at eighteen
There is no rest for a family with many children.
(There is) no rose without thorn.
There is no royal road to learning.
There is no rule but has some exception.
(There is) no smoke without fire.
(Where) there is smoke there is fire.
There is no success without hardship.
There is no such thing as a little country.
There is not a passion so strongly rooted in the human heart as envy.
There is nothing in which people more betray their character than in what they laugh at.
There is no new thing under the sun.
There is something behind the throne greater than the King himself.
They that dance must pay the fiddler.
He who dances must pay the piper.
They that know nothing fear nothing.
The thief thinks that all men are like himself.
Things are always at their best in their beginning.
Think of the end before you begin.
Think like a person of action, act like a person of thought.
This is the reason why mothers are more devoted to their children than fathers;
it is that they suffer more in giving them birth and more certain that are their own.
Thorn in one's side[flesh]. (Thorn in the side.)
Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones.
Curses, like chicken, come home to roost.
Those who love deeply never grow old ; they may die of old age, but they die young.
Those who realize their folly are not true fools.
Those who speak against the great do not usually speak from morality, but from envy.
Those whom the gods love die young.
Though marriage makes man and wife one flesh, it leaves 'em still two fools.
Though you like to beat the dog, you have to consider its master's face as well.
Throw[Cast] not your pearls before swine.
Time and hour are not to be tied with a rope.
Time brings everything to those who wait for it.
Time heals all sorrows[wounds].
Time heals griefs and quarrels, for we change and are no longer the same persons.
Time heals what reason can not.
Time is the rider that breaks youth.
Time ripens all things, No man's born wise.
Time tames the greatest[strongest] grief.
Time, which strengthens friendship, weakens love.
To a friend's house the road is never long.
To be able to enjoy one's past life is to live twice.
To be always ready for war is the surest way to avoid it.
To be happy, we must not be too concerned with others.
To be, or not to be, that is the question.
To bite off more than one can chew.
To break a butterfly on the wheel.
To cry up wine, and sell vinegar.
To dig a well to put out a house on fire.
To err is human, to forgive divine.
To get up early in three mornings is equal to one day of time.
To go together like needle and thread.
To have a grievance is to have a purpose in life.
To him who is determined it remains only to act.
To jump into the water for fear of the rain.
(To) kill two birds with one stone.
To know is one thing, to teach (is) another.
To know oneself, one should assert oneself.
To like and dislike the same things, this is what makes a solid friendship.
To listen closely and reply well is the highest perfection we are able to attain
To live is to climb the Andes; the more one climbs, the steeper become the precipices.
To make your children capable of honesty is the beginning of education.
To mention the wolf's name is to see the same.
Speak[talk] of the devil, and he will[is sure to] appear.
To preserve friendship one must build walls.
To repay borrowed money is the best way to use money.
To rub salt into an open wound.
To sell his birthright for a mess of pottage.
To serve an unintelligent man is like crying in the wilderness, massaging the body of
a dead man, planting water-lilies on dry land, whispering in the ear of the deaf.
To sow the wind and reap the whirlwind.
To take a sledgehammer to crack[break] a walnut[nut].
To teach a fish how to swim.
To teach a dog how to bark.
To teach your granny how to suck eggs.
To teach is to learn twice over.
To wash an ass's head is but a loss of time and soap.
To weep is to make less the depth of grief.
Today is the scholar of yesterday.
Today comes only once and never again returns.
Today to me, tomorrow it belongs to you.
Little knowledge is dangerous.
Too many chiefs and not enough Indians.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Too much agreement kills a chat.
Too much familiarity breeds contempt.
Too much humility is pride.
Too much is as bad as too little.
Too much water drowned the miller.
Travel east or travel west, a man's own house is still the best.
East or west, home is best.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
Troubles never come singly.
True miracles are created by men when they use the courage and intelligence
Truth and oil always come to the surface.
Truth is[lies] at the bottom of the decanter.
Truth[Fact] is stranger than fiction.
Truth lies at the bottom of a well.
Truth sits upon the lips of dying men.
Two birds of prey don't keep each other company.
Two is company, three is a crowd.
Two eyes, two ears, only one mouth.
Two heads are better than one.
Two of a trade never agree.
Two peas in the same pod,
Two's company, three's none.
Understanding is the beginning of approving.
United we stand, divided we fall.
Untaught than ill taught.
Practice makes perfect.
Variety is the mother of enjoyment.
Variety is the spice of life.
Vegetables fit for use are recognized by the small sprout.
Very ugly or very beautiful women should be flattered on their understanding
mediocre ones on their beauty.
Virtue is its own reward.
Wake not a sleeping lion.
War is a demon of the hell.
We all have enough strength to bear the misfortunes of others.
We are all serving a life-sentence in the dungeon of self.
We are born crying, live complaining, and die disappointed.
We are never so happy nor so unhappy as we imagine.
We can see through others only when we see through ourselves.
We can't reach old age by another man's road.
We have to distrust each other. It is our only defense against betrayal.
We know the truth, not only by the reason, but also by the heart.
We know the truth, not only by the reason, but by the heart.
We never know the love of our parents for us till we have become parents.
We never meet without parting.
We often give our enemies the means for our own destruction.
We pardon as long we love.
Wealth brings with it many anxieties.
Wealth makes many friends.
Wealth unused might as well not exist.
Well begun is half done.
What cannot be cured must be endured.
What's done cannot be undone.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
What is learned in the cradle is carried to the grave.
A leopard cannot change his spots.
Can the leopard change his spots?
What shut love out shall be shut out from.
Whatsoever a man sows, that shall he also reap.
What the heart thinks, the mouth speaks.
What's done cannot be undone.
When a proud man hears another praised, he thinks himself injured.
When an elephant is in trouble, even a frog will kick him.
When cats are mousing they won't mew.
When drink enters, wisdom departs.
When the wine is in, the wit is out.
Where the drink goes in, there the wit goes out.
When Greek meets Greek, then comes the tug of war.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
When one is reduced to poverty, the beggar will come out.
When one sheep goes to the dam, the rest follow.
When poverty comes in at the doors, love flies out at the windows.
When the cat is away, the mice will play.
When the defects of others are perceived with so much clarity,
it is because one possesses them oneself.
When the rich wage war, it's the poor who die.
When the word is out it belongs to another.
When the wolf grows old, the crows ride him.
When to hunt a wild pig and lost my tame one.
When work is a pleasure, life is a joy! When work is a duty, life is slavery.
When you know a thing, to hold that you know it, and when you do not know a thing,
to allow that do not know it this is knowledge.
Where fear is, happiness is not.
Where might is master, justice is servant.
Where the carcass is, the eagles will be gathered together.
Where the dike is lowest, the water first runs over.
Where there is a will, there is a way.
Where there is no beginning, there is no ending.
Where there is no hope there can be no endeavor.
Where there is no liberty, there is no peace and order.
Where there is marriage without love, there will be love without marriage.
Where there is smoke, there is fire.
Wherever we go, wherever we do, self is the sole subject we study and learn.
While there is life, there is hope.
Where there is great love, there is great pain.
Who climbs too high goes to a fall.
Who comes first, grinds first.
Who has a bad wife, his hell begins on earth.
Who holds the purse rules the house.
Who love too much hate in like extreme.
Who spits against the wind, it falls in his face.
Who ventures nothing has no luck.
Who wants to make a great poetry, he must make his life great poetry.
Whoever has no patience has no wisdom.
Whoever is aware of his own failing will not find fault with the failings of other men.
Whom the gods love, die young.
Widows are always rich.
Will can conquer habit.
Wine is the blood of devils.
Wisdom at times is found in folly.
Wise men learn by other men's mistakes; fools by their own.
Wise men learn by others' harms, fools scarcely by their own.
Without bread and wine, even love will fine.
The belly has no ears.
Without health, no one can be truly happy.
Without justice, courage is weak.
Without knowledge, without sin.
Without lies humanity would perish of despair and boredom.
Without pains, no gains.
Wives are young men's mistresses, companions for middle age, and old men's nurses.
Woman is weak, but mother is strong.
Woman's mind and winter wind change often.
Woman's reason is the milk of her breasts.
Woman's whole life is a history of love.
Woman understands children better than man does, but man is more childlike than woman.
Women prefer poverty with love to luxury without it.
Women, as they grow older, rely more and more on cosmetics. Man, as they grow older,
rely more and a sense of humor.
Word once spoken can't be wiped out with a sponge.
Words are women, deeds are men.
Words cut[hurt] more than swords.
Workmen are easier found than masters.
Years know better than books.
Experience is better than learning.
You're never too old to learn.
You can take a horse to the water, but you cannot make him drink.
You can't get blood from a turnip.
You can't get blood from a stone.
You can't eat your cake and have it (too).
You can't judge a book by its cover.
You cannot make a crab walk straight.
You can't make an omelette without breaking eggs.
You cannot make bricks without straw.
You cannot know the wine by the barrel.
You cannot see the wood for the trees.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
You could sell him the Brooklyn bridge.
You don't know what you've got until you've lost it.
You've cried wolf too many times.
You have to walk the talk.
You may lead a horse to the water, but you cannot make him drink.
You reap what you have sown.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
People reap as [what] they have sown.
You shouldn't burn the house to roast the pig.
Youth smiles without any reason. It is one of its chiefest charms.
